---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

## The Cathedral and the Bazaar  
### My Impressions on the The Cathedral and the Bazaar
Eric Raymond's [The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html) is a metaphor for proprietary versus open source development. It details Eric Raymond's indepth analysis of the bazaar developmental model, the open source approach, used by Linus Torvald, the creator of Linux. The book basically embraces all the advantages of the bazaar model and I find it very reasonable and easy to understand why that is. Some of the more important lesson I learned from reading The Cathedral and the Bazaar is that in order for the bazaar to be as successful as it could, the coordinator must be skilled enough to recognize good design from others,  good communication with the community is absolutely necessary, and the coordinator must always keep in mind the ego of the independent developers that choose to participate in their bazaar. I would suggest every upcoming software engineer and companies to read The Cathedral and the Bazaar to learn more about the now popularized perspective of software development.  
### Three Noteworthy Concepts from The Cathedral and the Bazaar
  * "When you lose interest in a program, your last duty to it is to hand it off to a competent successor."  
I agree with this concept 100% because if your program is useful and has the potential to be great, then there is no reason why you shouldn't hand down the code to a competent successor that would carry on your legacy.
  * "Treating your users as co-developers is your least-hassle route to rapid code improvement and effective debugging."  
It should be obvious that every contributor should be treated as co-developers but users should also be treated as co-developers because user feedback also play an important part in rapid code improvement, effective debugging, and expanding the program's capabilities and features. 
  * "Given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone."  
This concept is also linked to the idea that more heads is better than one. If the community for your program is reasonably sized, most issues should be fixable within a quick and reasonable amount of time due to active contributors to discussions.  
### My Contributions
As discussed in my last week's [blog post](https://hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019.github.io/jxuan101-weekly/week08/), I contributed to a small library type project for traveling application development. The project, appropriately named TravelResources, is on GitHub and can be found [here](https://github.com/unseen1980/TravelResources). There is only one issue open that ask contributors to add new links to useful APIs and resources or fix broken and old links. I chose this project because I essentially saw that the project didn't have OpenStreetMaps as one of its resources. I, who have been using OpenStreetMaps quite often for my open source software development course, knew that OSM has many tools for app integration. I described my workflow is my last blog post and basically, I forked the repository, made my changes to the README, and created a pull request which got approved pretty quickly by the author. And that sums up my first contribution but I have been looking at other new projects to contribute to such as [sowm](https://github.com/dylanaraps/sowm) and the [cadet-frontend](https://github.com/source-academy/cadet-frontend) for [Source Academy](https://sourceacademy.nus.edu.sg).
### Weekly Summary
  * Read Eric Raymond's [The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html).
  * Read the article, [Balancing Makers and Takers to scale and sustain Open Source](https://dri.es/balancing-makers-and-takers-to-scale-and-sustain-open-source).
  * Added Holy Crab Boiling as a new OpenStreetMap feature.
  * Learned about the safe ways to use Git to synchronize collaborative workflows.
  * Completed a Git activity that simulates working in a team in an upstream project. I learned to resolve merge conflicts using git fetch, git merge, and git rebase to synchronize my work to the remote repository.
  
