---
layout: post
title: Week 13
---

## Open Source Software on Businesses and Humanitarian Issues
### Open Source and Hackathons for Humanitarian Aid
Link to Article: [Hackathons bring open source innovation to humanitarian aid](https://opensource.com/life/16/6/openhack-hackathons-for-humanitarian-aid)  

According to author Johan Linåker, "humanitarian and development aid is about helping people suffering from short-term and long-term problems." A recent example that Johan gives is the refugee situation in Europe, and the disorder in Syria and its surrounding region. For the most part, humanitarian aid comes in the form of willing volunteers that want to make a difference in the world. Creating open source software for humanitarian aid is one of many ways to help make a difference. There already exists a lot of mature open source projects in the field of humanitarian and development aid. For example, [Ushahidi](https://www.ushahidi.com/) is an open source crowdsourcing and situation awareness software for crisis management and information gathering. Another example is [OpenMRS](https://openmrs.org/), an open source medical record system platform for developing countries. Such projects serve to aid people or countries in need through and not limited to technical solutions, data gathering, and spreading awareness.  
  
However, despite the existence of these projects, the knowledge and awareness of these projects and the potential of open source software in humanitarian and development aid is very limited. Prior to reading this article, I had no awareness of any of these projects which helps consolidate this fact for me. This is why Johan decided to address this on a local level by arranging a hackathon called [OpenHack](https://www.openhack.io/) where people and organizations interested in software development and tech can work together with representatives and subject-matter experts from various aid organizations currently tackling humanitarian and development issues around the world. Like a regular hackathon, participants could choose to either work on their own ideas or on case challenges provided by on-site aid organizations and open source projects such as Ushahidi requesting ideas on how to further improve their data gathering and analytics after a disaster has occurred. Many good connections and improvements that were created during the hackathon were integrated into the various humanitarian projects and teams to allow them to aid those in need better. Not to mention, this inspired many other hackathons to be created for the purpose of humanitarian and development aid. It is definitely great to hear that there are many humanitarian and development based projects and organizations are open source because in my opinion, it is the right thing to do. Everyone can use the software and many others could better the software and in turn provide even better help.

### The Open Source Software Business Model
Link to Article: [Musings on business models for open source software](https://spot.livejournal.com/327801.html)  
  
In this article, Tom Callaway analyzes the difference between companies that are open core and those that are not. Tom strictly emphasizes control and how the customers' control impacts how successful the company is. For me personally, other than for the reason that I have to pay a hefty amount to use proprietary software that are essentially open source projects with extra addons, control is very important especially if I'm going to use open source softwares. I'm going to have to agree with Tom that "open source" companies should eliminate the proprietary-ness of their business model and fully embrace open source code. [Red Hat](https://www.redhat.com/en) is one of the most successful open source companies and they are fully open source but they make their revenue from customer service and support. I think that other open source companies should learn from Red Hat and realize that when it comes to open source software, the customer and their sense of control matters.

### The Advantages of Open Source in Enterprises

