---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

## The Software Freedom Conservancy and IRCs  
### The Search For Projects  
I am going to be honest here and say that searching for projects to contribute to has been difficult. Maybe this is due to my standards being too high still. I tried GitHub explore and searching repositories by topic but I felt like I would not be able to make a worthy contribution to any of the bigger repositories. Then I searched for labels such as "first-timers-only" and "good first issue" and I found a plethora of good issues that I am able to contribute to. Most of them look doable and are mostly just documentation. I have a feeling that I would be spending my time picking out these labels to pull.  
  
### The Software Freedom Conservancy and Guest Speaker Karen Sandler  
On a side note, Karen Sandler, the executive director of the Software Freedom Conservancy, visited my class this week as a guest speaker to talk about software licenses and software freedom and answer our questions. She discussed about many issues and concerns that our society should be more aware of such as the lack of FDA involvement in medical technologies such as Pacemakers. Throughout her talk, she makes very valid points as to why open source would benefit the future of our society. The day was overall very educational and I am sure that most of us acquired some very useful knowledge to help us in our futures.  
  
### Weekly Summary  
 * Read Section 5 of GitHub's [How To Contribute](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#how-to-submit-a-contribution) in preparation for near future class assignments.
 * Learned how to get started with IRC.
 * Read and prepare for Professor Weiss' [project evaluation guidelines](http://www.compsci.hunter.cuny.edu/~sweiss/course_materials/csci395.86/activities_f19/project_evaluation_activity.pdf).
