---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

## Second Guest Speaker and Open Source Contributions
### Open Source Contributions

Hey hey what's shaking? I'm back again to tell you all about my very productive week and my progress assimilating into the open source community. I'm still contributing to OpenStreetMap with local restaurants around me, but I also started looking towards contributing to other projects on GitHub. To begin my search, I started by going through the *good first issue* labels on GitHub. I came across this project [TravelResources](https://github.com/unseen1980/TravelResources) that turned out to be my very first GitHub project contribution. [TravelResources](https://github.com/unseen1980/TravelResources) is not an application but more of a library of APIs and other resources that help others who are interested in building a travel app. 

The creator of the repository was looking for help to maintain or add to his library. Since I knew about the existence of OpenStreetMaps as an open source map service, I thought that it would be listed as a part of his library. However, that was not the case so I decided that this would be an easy first contribution for me. I proceeded to fork the repository, clone it to my local machine, create a new branch, make the edits, and then submit a [pull request](https://github.com/unseen1980/TravelResources/pull/25). It just so happens that my pull request was merged right away and I was thanked by the owner. Despite my first contribution being quite simple, I still felt a sense of satisfaction and desire to do more. I am now currently looking for additional repositories on GitHub where I could do more simple edits and ultimately, one where I can contribute a bit of code preferably in C++. I'm still quite busy with midterms and the rest of my classes but I will try to make time for more open source contributions.
  
### Guest Speaker Bill Reyner
Bill Reyner, the Associate Director and Vice President at FactSet, visited my class on Thursday to speak about the Open Source environment in a corporate setting. Listening to Bill discuss the developmental progress of FactSet over the course of 20 years was very interesting. He presented us with a timeline of the evolution of the user interface of FactSet as it developed from using a shell interface to a modern html interface. One could easily tell how much work and growth the employees at FactSet facilitated over the years to get to where they are today. In addition, Bill also discussed how the company had started to move towards the open source landscape and what the advantages of open sourcing their projects were as well as the challenges faced while in a large corporate setting. 

I understand that switching to an open source directed approach, especially for a large corporation like FactSet, would obviously be a challenge but I'm glad they are doing their best with their open source initiatives. If they can accomplish this, they could spread their name and influence even further from just the financial market. Eventually, they could garner even better relations with their users thus overall, helping the company grow.  
  
### Weekly Summary
  * Read Chapter 3, Git Branching, of [Pro Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2). I learned more about branching, branch management, workflows, and rebases.
  * Read Eric Raymond's [The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html) to learn about Eric Raymond's story of how he utilized Linus Torvald's bazaar style of development to create a open-source project that resulted in a significant success story.
  * Made my first [contribution](https://github.com/unseen1980/TravelResources/pull/25) to TravelResources and continued surfing through GitHub for more good first issues.
  * More OpenStreetMap edits.
