---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---


## Learning to Evaluate Open Source Projects  
Hey there! Another week has gone and I've been busy with my midterms but here I am again to report on this week's open source development course progression. This week, we had group work again but this time, we had to choose a project from a list provided by our professor and evaluate it. My group consists of 3 members including me and our project was [Mumble](https://www.mumble.com/), an open source voice communication software geared more towards the gamer community. The project evaluation consists of several components. Firstly, we had to find out the license that our project uses which in our case was the BSD 3-Clause license. Next was accessing the code base of the project and evaluating its programming languages, history, stable releases, etc. Afterwards, we then evaluated the documentations and how clear, percise, and helpful they are for developers. The last components of our evaluation consisted of the activity level and the welcomeness of the project and its community. Each group had their own styles of workflow but my group decided that dividing the work evenly and working separately would be more efficient in completing the task in the short hour we had during class. I was responsible for the licensing and code base evaluations. I learned about the BSD 3-Clause License and how it almost grants unlimited freedom for the use of the software so long as the user includes the BSD copyright and the license with their usage. The [code base](https://github.com/mumble-voip/mumble) for Mumble is also documented clearly and easy to read. I was impressed with their modularization of the software's features and their file naming systems. Most information about the project was in plain view and can be acquired very easily. Overall, Mumble is a very active development wise and a potential good candidate for beginner contributors.  
  
On the other hand, we also had to complete a project evaluation by ourselves on a project that was not already evaluated during class. The specifications of the evaluation are exactly the same as the group project evaluation above. I chose to evaluate [LibreOffice](https://www.libreoffice.org/), a free and open-source office suite. LibreOffice uses the MPL 2.0 or Mozilla Public License 2.0. The MPL 2.0 license grants everyone the freedom to use the code as they please but any modifications or enhancements made must also be shared. LibreOffice was mainly written in C++ just like Mumble except that the code base is much harder to understand despite its elaborate documentation. LibreOffice is a pretty hefty project consisting of over 9.5 million lines of actual code. It wouldn't also be a surprise if there were a lot of bugs and vulnerabilities associated with it throughout the 19-ish years it has been active. It was very hard to uncover information about LibreOffice in terms of its activity levels. This is due to the fact that LibreOffice uses its own bug tracking and pull request websites rather than on GitHub. Information such as the lifetime of issues and the history of closed issues were either obscure or hidden. Overall, I would say that LibreOffice is not a very beginner friendly project to contribute to. It would appear that if you want to contribute to LibreOffice, you would have to learn and adapt to their own kind of systems.  
  
### Weekly Summary
  * Project Evaluation group work in class. My group chose [Mumble](https://www.mumble.com/) as our project of focus. The activity increased our level of perception and our researching abilities. Turns out Mumble is a pretty good choice for beginner developers.
  * Project Evaluation solo work at home. I chose [LibreOffice](https://www.libreoffice.org/) as the subject of my evaluation. Contributing to large projects such as LibreOffice might be a bad idea for first issues.
  * Continued my contributions on OpenStreetMap.
  
