---
layout: post
title: Week 14
---

## End of Semester Reflection
The time has come for me to look back throughout this semester and reflect on what I have learned. From my first ever [blog post](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/jxuan101-weekly/blob/gh-pages/_posts/2019-09-04-week01.md) on this blog, I stated that my main reason for taking an open source development class was for me to learn how to develop for and contribute to open source projects. I have to say that I was not disappointed by what I had learned and achieved. One of the most important lessons I learned was to be fearless. Hesitation and the fear of being an incapable contributor kept me from experiencing the community and the beauty that is open source. While it was extremely unrealistic of me to hope for an employment or internship opportunity out of this course, I am still grateful for what the course provided me. My second [blog post](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/jxuan101-weekly/blob/gh-pages/_posts/2019-09-11-week02.md) detailed my plan for contributing and I felt that I followed it faithfully. I stuck to making small scale contributions such as feature suggestions, fixing typos, and bug-fixing. My contributions were nothing major and I didn't contribute to any projects that I personally used. However, I did work on my own Discord bot and I also worked on some contributions to an Indie game called [AncientBeasts](https://github.com/FreezingMoon/AncientBeast). Other than learning to be fearless, gaining experience was also very important. In the end, it is the experience that will help me in the future of my career.
