---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

## A Slow Week
### Guest Speaker: Kevin Fleming from Bloomberg LP
This week, Kevin Fleming, a member of the CTO Office at Bloomberg LP, spoke at my Open Source development course about Bloomberg LP and their involvement with Open Source and how they're giving back to the Open Source community. I learned that the Bloomberg LP is a very active contributor to dozens of Open Source projects such as Jupyter and Hadoop. They also released some of their own Open Source projects. Bill Reyner, Associate Director and Vice President at FactSet, who also guest spoke in my class during week 8, mentioned that they did something similar when engaging with the Open Source community.  FactSet, despite being "Closed Source" for most of their earlier years, had recently started getting involved in Open Source. They released many of their own Open Source projects. However, Bloomberg goes a step beyond that and actually organizes Open Source events such as inviting creators to host events where they teach others on how to contribute to their project. I appreciate all the work they do and the role they play in the financial and Open Source communities.
### Side Note: System76 Introduces Laptops with Open Source BIOS Coreboot
Link to article: [here](https://opensource.com/article/19/11/coreboot-system76-laptops?utm_campaign=intrel)  
  
To those who don't know, most of the firmware on computers that are sold today are proprietary meaning the BIOS is not generally accessible by consumers. An Open Source Coreboot such as the one System76 are releasing with their new laptop models would allow access to BIOS and more importantly, the source code would be open for everyone to learn from and modify to their needs. To the ordinary consumer, this wouldn't mean much other than much faster and cleaner bootups but to programmers and more technical consumers, the Open Source Coreboot opens up a new world of creative freedom.
### GitHub Update
I am still waiting on the creator of [terminalfaker](https://github.com/syntaxseed/terminalfaker) to respond to my comments on the issue before I can formally submit a pull request. As of now, the creator is MIA so I should probably look for other projects to do in the meantime. When the creator does respond, it should mark my first code contribution to GitHub so that's exciting. On the other hand, my second pull request for [TravelResources](https://github.com/unseen1980/TravelResources) finally got accepted. That can be found [here](https://github.com/unseen1980/TravelResources/pull/33).
### Weekly Summary
  * Read about System76's new [Open Source Coreboot](https://opensource.com/article/19/11/coreboot-system76-laptops?utm_campaign=intrel).
  * Contributed edits to Wikipedia which can be found in my [Contributions](https://hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019.github.io/jxuan101-weekly/contributions/) page in week 11.
  * Learned more about Open Source in corporate settings from Guest Speaker Kevin Fleming of Bloomberg LP.
  * Learned more Linux bash commands.
